Various ramblings on the notions and goodies of ELS.

## Purpose

Provide a purpose-built tool for the back-up and curation of file and media collections
spanning multiple storage devices.

Entertainment Library Synchronizer (ELS) started as a command line back-up tool that
only used locally-connected storage for both publisher and subscriber. Over the years it
has evolved to include LAN and Internet capability, standard SFTP, an STTY interactive
terminal, Hint processing, the Hint Status Server and the ELS Navigator desktop application.

## The Publisher / Subscriber Paradigm

The publisher and subscriber paradigm is an approach to the way the code is organized
and how to think about what's going where.

In ELS terms for remote operations the subscriber is a server listener and the publisher
is the client. Whether local or remote the publisher matches it's content, based on media
libraries like Movies or TV Shows, that may span multiple storage devices, against the 
content of the subscriber.

ELS may be configured in many ways. For example:
* Curating
  * ELS subscriber listener on a collection media server
  * ELS Navigator (publisher) on a workstation that does pre-processing of media
* Back-up
  * ELS subscriber on a collection back-up system
  * ELS publisher on a collection media server

## ELS and Home Media Systems

ELS is not specific to any particular home media system provided it follows the general
conventions of directory organization as discussed elsewhere in this documentation. It
is configured separately from a media system to provide flexibility and autonomy.

Media libraries may be in a home media system that are not configured in ELS so that
content is not synchronized or shown. 

Also, logical libraries may be configured in ELS to synchronize directories that are
not part of a home media system.

It all depends on what is needed and how ELS is configured.

There is the Plex Profile Generator that is included in the ELS distribution. It is
included primarily because it happens to be the home media system we use. It is not
an endorsement of any particular product, although Plex is great.

## ELS and Streaming Media Assets

ELS is also not specific to home media systems. It is a library and title-based system
that allows any library to grow across multiple storage devices. If you create for YouTube,
Tiktok, Instagram, Vimeo, Twitch or your Mom 'n Dad managing and backing-up your work is
critical.

ELS is platform and media independent. Libraries and files may be organized in any way
that makes sense for your situation.


## ELS Updater

ELS has a built-in Updater.

### Relevant Files

From the perspective of an installed ELS:

 * bin/ELS.jar/version.info : Contains build information for that Jar
   * Generated by the ant script els.xml 
 * bin/update.info : Contains the URL used to check for updates.
   * If something changes this file may be edited by hand. 
   * Generated by the ant script els.xml

### Procedure

 1. User selects Help, Check for updates
 2. Navigator uses bin/update.info to download the latest version.info 
 3. Navigator compares the numeric build stamp with the internal ELS.jar/version.info
 4. If different an update is available - assuming the user selects Yes:
     1. Navigator downloads the latest ELS-Updater from the URL in latest version.info
     2. That archive is unpacked into the system temporary file directory. Any previous directory is deleted
     3. The install directory path and the parameters to restart Navigator are written to ELS-Updater.info in the Updater directory  
     4. Navigator executes the Updater and quits
 5. The Updater:
     1. Reads ELS-Update.info 
     2. Renames the installed bin/ and rt/ directories for back-up
     3. Uses it's bin/update.info to download the latest version.info
     4. Uses the appropriate URL from version.info for the operating system to download the latest ELS archive
     5. That archive is unpacked into the install directory
     6. If all is successful the back-up directories are deleted
         1. If not new (partial) directories are deleted
         2. Back-up directories are restored 
     7. Uses the command line from ELS-Updater.info to restart ELS Navigator with a hidden parameter for success or failure
 6. After a brief delay upon start-up ELS Navigator displays a success or failure dialog
 
